In 1906 Portugal’s King Charles appointed João Franco as prime minister and allowed him to assume dictatorial powers, a decision that was met by strong opposition. On the morning of Feb. 1, 1908, a newspaper reported that a new law had gone into effect calling for the deportation to Africa of anyone who opposed the policies of the monarch. That afternoon Charles and the crown prince were assassinated by anarchists on the northwest corner of Commerce Square. That same day, Manuel, the king’s younger son, ascended to the Portuguese throne as Manuel II. The new king vowed to uphold the constitution and destroy his father’s oppressive regime. Two years later Manuel II abdicated. A republic was declared, and a period of national instability ensued. When António de Oliveira Salazar took control of the near-bankrupt country in 1932, he established a corporate state for which he alone determined the policies until his retirement in 1968. There was considerable growth in Lisbon throughout this time. New industries emerged, and oil and petrochemical refineries were constructed. Electrical and metal manufactures were mass-produced. Ports, roads, and railways were modernized, and housing projects, colleges, hospitals, and sports arenas were built.During the world wars the city was able to offer refuge to some 200,000 foreigners. Until the end of World War I, urban expansion followed the pattern of broad avenues established in Paris in the mid-19th century by Georges-Eugène Haussmann. After the war, city extensions became more functional, though the new street patterns were relatively uncharacteristic, dominated by big highways and the absence of a coherent urban design.In the 1960s national policy began to change, allowing economic expansion. The 30-year-old austerity program of stability and self-sufficiency (at an admittedly low level of investment and consumption) was somewhat softened, and tourists and foreign corporations began to be accommodated. In 1966, well ahead of schedule, the Salazar (now the 25th of April) Bridge was completed.On April 25, 1974, the government of Marcello Caetano, Salazar’s successor, was overthrown by a military coup. By the early 1980s, however, political instability and economic difficulties remained serious problems and hindered the country’s—and the city’s—efforts to bring about social and economic reforms. The restriction of government funds for the municipality of Lisbon led to a bitter struggle within the city council, where resistance mounted to speculative building projects that would affect the environment in historical parts of the city.In 1986 Portugal’s integration into the European Economic Community (later succeeded by the European Union) stimulated modernization in Lisbon, and private investment contributed to the construction of new buildings. The World’s Fair in 1998 spurred the modernization of the city’s infrastructure, increased tourism, and stimulated economic growth. In the early 2000s, however, Portugal experienced economic stagnation, and its economic development fell behind that of other European countries. Lisbon fared better than other cities in the country, however, and, along with tourists, it has continued to attract foreig